
Project Proposal:

ProjectDescription:
    Name: homeFit
    Description: 
    My goal for this project is to implement a program that gives the user a solid workout given the user attributes and inputed constraints.
    The workouts consist of simple bodyweight exercises that anyone can do, and the user chooses a category that they would like to focus on.
    Given an intensity and time constraint, the program will generate an optimized workout so that the user can burn calories and stay in shape
    using the simplex algorithm. If a workout is too easy, the program will also adjust and make it slightly harder each time.


Competetive Analysis:
        After taking a look at workout apps on the App Store, I realized that my project would have a lot of competition. There are many companies 
    that have app or web-based products where users can not only get a great workout, but also meet with real trainers, get nutrition information,
    and even buy apparel. One of the most popular apps is Aaptive, which has workouts and personal trainers on stand by. Another major company is Peloton, 
    which has their machines and fully developed app as well. Given my experience thus far, my product will not be nearly as complete as theirs. Even just for 
    the workout selection and implementation portions, I do not have to time nor photography skills to include physical images of each workout myself.
    Furthermore, my app will not have personal trainers on demand that the users can call up if they want to change workouts. As of right now, there is also no 
    audio portion of my project, which can be a major components to users who are better motivated when they hear a trainer. Some applications also have Apple Watch
    implementation as well.
        However, all of these applications require a subscription. My main competititve edge is that my product is free, which is a great incentive for people to try
    out, since there is no monetary cost to them. Furthermore, my goal is to make the workouts more customizable, so that the user can add in their own workouts as well.
    Given the current situation with the pandemic, many people do not have access to gym equipment that would be necessary to maintain muscle mass or weight loss. My
    goal for this app is to have users be creative and come up with ways to do exercises that use other items to substitute the standard equipment. 

Structural Plan:
        The main components of the project will be organized into three main areas: the user interface, the exercise dictionary, and the workout generator itself. I 
    have all my files organized in one folder thus far, and I will add more as I continue to add complexity to my code, implement a user interface, and create
    the workout generator. The back-end workout exercises will have the word 'exercise' in the name of the program to indicate its main function. Similarly, the 
    webscrapping functions will be labeled with 'scrape' and the website name. Any major algorithmically complex parts will be labeled with 'program'. Finally, any
    component related to user interface will include 'UI' in the file name. 

Algorithmic Plan:
        The main source of my algorithmic complexity at this point will be my implementation of the recursive simplex algorithm. This algorithm takes in linear constraints, and
    finds the maximum or minimum of a function with those linear constraints. I give the algorithm a problem as a string and it first parses through the string to get the most useful 
    information. Then, it adds in slack variables, finds the coefficient of each variable, and creates a matrix with the information. Once the matrix with only numbers is created, I
    run the simplex algorithm on it, which first finds the column with the most negative value in the optimization function row, finds the pivot with the most stringent constraints, and
    change every other row so that there are zeros in that column. The problem keeps running until all the numbers in the optimization function row are greater than or equal to zero.
        My other algorithmic complexity will come from my exerciseGenerator, which will take different attributes about a person, and return a workout for them. I will be using classes 
    for this implementation, and I plan on applying the constraints to the simplex algorithm. In order to do this, I will first change all the attributes into one unit, which will be 
    calories per hour. Then I will apply the simplex algorithm so that the program maximizes the number of calories the user will burn with those constraints. 

Timeline Plan (Updated on April 23, 2020):
    Deadline: April 29, 2020
    Today: April 23, 2020
    Tasks Completed:
        Webscraping workouts 
        Simplex Algorithm
        Main Exercise Generator
        User Data Management and Login Feature
        Basic UI
    Tasks to Complete:
        See TP2 Update

Version Control Plan:
    All of my code is stored here: https://github.com/dyou3968/homeWorkoutProgram
    I upload my work as I finish one program at a time, so I make sure nothing is lost.

Module List:
    Beautiful Soup
    Requests
    Tkinter

TP2 Update:
    In terms of design changes, I have created the simplex algorithm to work in a way that takes in
    arbitrary constraints. While this was initially unexpected, it turns out that the academic research 
    does not have a set formula for this either. I will continue researching this weekend to figure out
    how to best maximize my use of the simplex algorithm. The UI is pretty basic, and there opportunity 
    to improve the buttons and coloring, but this will not be the main focus of the final touches.

    Main Features to Add:
        Number of constraints based on goals of the user
        Ability for user to see exercise descriptions and click on youtube links
        Timing Feature that adjusts the intensity of the workout based on performance

TP3 Update:
    I have changed the goal of the program so that it maximizes the number of calories burned of the user.
    I have also added a timer feature, a pause and end workout option, and an intensity changer if the user 
    finishes the workout with too much time left. I have also included animation to the start screen, and 
    some UI improvements.